Sonja L. Gustafson, M.M., is currently a student working on a Certificate in Coding through the MIT xPro Emeritus program.  It is an online curriculum that focuses on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and the MERN stack.  Once the certificate has been completed, Sonja hopes to use her skills to benefit the non-profit organization she serves as Executive Director as well as other organizations.

Sonja is a classical musician with Masters of Music Degrees in Organ Performance and Church Music from Indiana University-Bloomington, and Bachelor of Music Degrees in Organ & Church Music and K-12 Music Education from St. Olaf College.  With the Certificate in Coding, Sonja hopes to serve music communities and organizations by creating websites and online music tools that can be used by students and teachers alike,

For 17 years, Sonja worked as Office Administrator and then Director of Operations for a busy non-profit music teacher organization which holds a variety of exams and contest events for students, along with education opportunities for teachers.  The 2006-2007 academic year brought her the first chance to work with several web developers to create a unique system for online registration for the organization.  The system continued to evolve over the years to better capture registration needs.  In 2015-2016, the teacher organization partnered with August Ash in Bloomington, MN, to create an entirely new, unique website in Drupal with an integrated custom online registration system that sends the registration through the cart, and then allows registration data to be exported to Excel.

It was the flexibility of the Drupal site and allowed Sonja and her co-worker Riley Pritchett to build a make-shift Learning Management System at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure the student events could continue to be held even though they were now in a completely online environment.  Because of this work, Sonja became interested in exploring Drupal further which led to an interest in coding and enrolling in the MIT program.
